[Video](https://youtu.be/GmfGyin2kUs)

## Agenda
* Review
  * Attribute properties
* Class methods
* Inheritance 
* Ruby inheritance
* Composition
* Terminal cheat sheet
* Ruby cheat sheet

# Attribute properties
`attr_`* - Used to create a read only property on an object

`attr_`* - Used to create a write only property on an object

`attr_`* - Used to create a readable and writeable property on an object

```














```

```ruby
class Person
  attr_reader :mother, :father
  attr_writer :mood
  attr_accessor :hair_color, :age, :name
end
```

# Class methods and properties
Sometimes it is useful to have methods on the class itself, as opposed to on instances of the class.

For example, maybe you want to keep track of how many objects of a certain class type have been created.

```ruby
class Person
  @count = 0            # This creates an instance variable on the Person Class object

  def self.add_one      # Use self in the method definition to make it a class method instead of an instance method
    @count += 1
  end

  def initialize(name:)
    @name = name
    Person.add_one      # Class methods can be called by using the dot operator on the class instead of an instance
  end
end
```


# Inheritance and composition
Creating reusable objects can be done in many different ways, but the two most common are *inheritance* and *composition*.

Inheritance is the concept of inheriting behavior from a *superclass* within a *subclass*

*Inheritance* makes sense in some situations, but not all situations.

For example, having `Car` class that inherits from a `Vehicle` class that has some common function makes sense.

However, having a `Bicycle` class that inherits from that same `Vehicle` class probably doesn't make sense since a car and a bicycle are very different.


# Inheritance in Ruby
So the, how do I write a class that inherits from another class in Ruby?


```ruby
class Rectangle
  def initialize(width, height)
    @width, @height = width, height
  end
  def area
    @width * @height
  end
end

class Square < Rectangle
  def initialize(width)
    super(width, width)
  end
end

```

# Composition
*Composition* is the concept of an object being composed of multiple other objects.

For example a car is composed of many parts, such as:
* Wheels
* Engine
* Chassis
* Doors
* Windshields
* Transmission
* Etc

Creating objects through composition involves creating smaller objects that describe a portion of a larger object,

and then having the larger object contain those other objects.

For a `Car` class, that might look like this:

```ruby
class Car
  def initialize
    @engine = Engine.new
    @transmission = Transmission.new
    @doors = [Door.new('Left'), Door.new('Right')]
  end
end
```


## Review the terminal cheat sheet

[link](terminal_cheat_sheet.md)

## Review the ruby cheat sheet

[link](ruby_cheat_sheet.md)
