# Homework

It's Thanksgiving weekedn. If you feel like it, do these problems. If you don't do any, that's ok too. We're gonna go over them in class anyways.

## Dice

### Normal mode

Create a game where the user simulates rolling a pair of dice.

- If the sum of the dice is 7, the user wins and the game should say something positive.
- If the user loses by rolling anything other than 7, the computer should say something negative.

Sample output

```bash
DICE ROLL GAME
press ctrl-c to quit, press enter to continue # user presses enter
Dice 1: 5
Dice 2: 4
Sum: 9
You lose! # user presses enter
Dice 1: 4
Dice 2: 3
Sum: 7
You win! # user press ctrl-c and stops execution
```

### Hard mode

Now that you have a simple working game, adjust your code so that the positive and negative messages are random.

For example, if the user wins, it could say "Congrats!" one time and "Your are very lucky!" the next, and "With this luck you should play the lotter" also.

Also, if the user loses, it could say "Boo-hoo!" one time and "Maybe try knitting." the next, and "Just stop." also.

The messages don't matter, as long as they get printed randomly.

## Number Guessing Game

### Description

Create a number guessing game in which the computer picks a number and you have to guess it.  The computer will give you cues like 'Too High' or 'Too Low.'

### Normal Mode

Your goal for this week is to create a number guessing game. Your program should pick a random number between 1 and 100 and ask you for a guess. If your guess is less than the program's number, it should tell you that you were low and let you guess again. If the guess is greater than the program's number,  it should tell you that you were high and let you guess again. If your guess is correct, the program should tell you that you win and then quit.

* The gameplay should match the instructions given in the Mode(s) below.
* After 5 incorrect guesses, the program should tell you that you lose.
* If you guess the same number twice, the program should ask you if you're feeling all right (or something similarly sarcastic).
* Your code should include at least two methods.
* This game should be run from the command line by typing "ruby guessing_game.rb".

### Hard Mode

The program should also comment on your behavior if you make a guess that doesn't help you.  For example, you might say "50" and then be told "that's too low."  If you then guess "25," you're just wasting a guess.

### Nightmare Mode

Write the opposite program as well: you, the user, pick a number between 1 and 100. The computer has to guess the number. You tell it whether it's too high, too low, or correct after each guess. The computer gets five guesses. The computer should tell you if you are lying to it.  (e.g. Computer guesses 50, you say "High."  Computer then guesses 49 and you say "Low."  You'd be lying, as there are no numbers between them.)

### Additional Resources

If you do Nightmare Mode, you might want to:

* [Watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JQhciTuD3E8) about binary search
* [Read this article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_search_algorithm) about binary search

## Student Grades

You are a teacher. You want a program that keeps track of your students and their grades.

The program is keeping all this information in a database. Call the data file `students.yml`. The program should ask what you want to do: search a student or add a student. If you add a student, you should be able to enter a student's name and their grades. If you search a student, but they can't be found, show error message. If student is found, you see their name, grades, and average. Should be asked if you want to add more grades or go back.

User should see something like:

```bash
ruby students.rb # user types ruby students.rb
Main menu (a = add. s = search)
> a # user types a
Adding student.
Name: Bob # user types Bob
Grade: 78 # User types 78
Grade: 90
Grade: # User types nothing
Main menu (s = search, a = add)
> s # user types s
Searching.
Name? Bob # user types Bob
Student: Bob
Grades: 78, 90
Average: 84.0
Student menu (a = add grade. b = back)
> a # user types a
Grade: 80 # user types 80
Grade: # user types nothing
Student: Bob
Grades: 78, 90, 80
Average: 82.7
Student menu (a = add grade. b = back)
> b # user types b
(a = add. s = search)
> s # user types a
Student name? David # user types David
David not found!
Main menu (a = add. s = search)
> # user types nothing, program stops
```

All this student info gets saved to a file.

## Album Inventory

You work at an album store. Your boss says he wants to keep track of all the albums they have in stock. He wants to know the name of the album and the number of copies they have. Build a program that allows the user to perform the following operations:

- Add a record to the inventory file
- Search for a record
- Modify the quantity in an existing record in the inventory file
- Delete a record in the inventory file

We want to give the user a menu to choose from. Build a program with the following methods

- `main:` This method executes when the program starts
- `display_menu:` This method displays the following menu:

```
1. Add a record.
2. Search for a reward.
3. Modify a record.
4. Delete a record.
5. Display all records.
6. End the program.
```
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The `display_menu` method also gets the user's selection, and validates the selection.
- `add_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #1 from the menu. It allows the user to search the inventory file for a specific record.
- `search_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #2 from the menu. It allows the user to search the inventory file for a specific record.
- `modify_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #3 from the menu. It allows the user to modify the quantity that is stored in an existing record in the inventory.
- `delete_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #4 from the menu. It allows the user to delete a record form the inventory file.
- `display_records:` This method is called when the user selects item #5 from the menu. It displays all of the records in the inventory file.

The pseudocode for the `main` method is show below.

```ruby
def main
  loop do
    # display the menu, get selection
    # large if-elsif statement
      # case 1: call add_record
      # case 2: call search_record
      # case 3: call modify_record
      # case 4: call delete_record
      # case 5: call display_records
      # stop loop if selection was 6
  end
end
```
