# Homework

# Classes
Create a `Vehicle` class.
The class should have an `initialize` method that sets two instance variables named 'noise' and 'speed'.
'speed' should be initialized to 0, and 'noise' initialized to 'nothing'.

It should also have two instance methods named `start` and `move`.

When the `move` method is called it should print the 'speed' and 'noise' of the car.
When the `start` method is called it should change the values of the 'speed' and 'noise' method to indicate the vehicle is moving.
Maybe the sound will be 'Vroom vroom', maybe 'rumble', whatever you like.

Calling the `move` method again after `start` has been called should now output different values than it did previously.

## Morse Code

Design a program that asks the user for input and encrypts the string into morse code.

The program should load a YAML file with all the characters and their morse code equivalents into the program.

That data should be used to convert a string into morse code and print it out.

Here is a morse code table

|character|code|   |character|code|
|:-------:|:--:|---|:-------:|:--:|
|space| *space*|   |  G  |  --.   |
|comma| --..-- |   |  H  |  ....  |
|period|.-.-.- |   |  I  |  ..    |
|  ?  | ..--.. |   |  J  |  .---  |
|  0  |  ----- |   |  K  |  -.-   |
|  1  |  .---- |   |  L  |  .-..  |
|  2  |  ..--- |   |  M  |  --    |
|  3  |  ...-- |   |  N  |  -.    |
|  4  |  ....- |   |  O  |  ---   |
|  5  |  ..... |   |  P  |  .---. |
|  6  |  -.... |   |  Q  |  --.-  |
|  7  |  --... |   |  R  |  .-.   |
|  8  |  ---.. |   |  S  |  ...   |
|  9  |  ----. |   |  T  |  -     |
|  A  |  .-    |   |  U  |  ..-   |
|  B  |  -...  |   |  V  |  ...-  |
|  C  |  -.-.  |   |  W  |  .--   |
|  D  |  -..   |   |  X  |  -..-  |
|  E  |  .     |   |  Y  |  -.--  |
|  F  |  ..-.  |   |  Z  |  --..  |

Sample output

```bash
Morse Code Converter
Type something
> sup # user types sup
... # morse code for S
..- # morse code for U
.---. # morse code for P
> # user types nothing. program closes
```

## Unit conversion program

We need a program that converts the following measurements form English units to metric units.
- Convert inches to centimeters.
- Convert feet to meters.
- Convert miles to kilometers.

Here are the formulas for making these conversions:
- *centimeters* = *inches* x 2.54
- *meters* = *feet* x 0.3048
- *kilometers* = *miles* x 1.60934

The program should display a menu, like the one below, that allow the user to select the conversion that he or she wants to perform.

```bash
1. Convert inches to centimeters.
2. Convert feet to meters.
3. Convert miles to kilometers.

Enter you selection.
```

Possible output is

<pre>
1. Convert inches to centimeters.
2. Convert feet to meters.
3. Convert miles to kilometers.

Enter you selection.
<b>1 [Enter]</b>
Enter the number of inches.
<b>10 [Enter]</b>
That is equal to 25.4 centimeters.

1. Convert inches to centimeters.
2. Convert feet to meters.
3. Convert miles to kilometers.

Enter you selection.
<b>2 [Enter]</b>
Enter the number of feet.
<b>10 [Enter]</b>
That is equal to 3.048 meters.

1. Convert inches to centimeters.
2. Convert feet to meters.
3. Convert miles to kilometers.

Enter you selection.
<b>3 [Enter]</b>
Enter the number of miles.
<b>10 [Enter]</b>
That is equal to 16.09 kilometers.

1. Convert inches to centimeters.
2. Convert feet to meters.
3. Convert miles to kilometers.

Enter you selection.
<b>4 [Enter]</b>
That is an invalid selection. Enter 1, 2, or 3.
</pre>

You will have to use loops and methods to keep this code readable and easy to understand.

## Rocket launch countdown

Write a program that counts down a rocket launch!

### Normal mode

Write a program that gets an integer from the user and begins a rocket launch countdown
Try to replicate one of these:

[[VIDEO](https://youtu.be/OnoNITE-CLc?t=1m)]

[[ANOTHER ONE](https://youtu.be/wCy401hkXuk)]

[[FAVORITE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8V9TCD0TTtk)]

The output should look something like this

```bash
Seconds before countdown: 24 # user types 24
20
15
12
11
10
9
iGNITION SEQUENCE START
6
5
4
3
2
1
ALL ENGINES RUNNING
LIFTOFF
```

As you can see. We count down by 5's until we get to 12. Then we start counting by 1's. 
The program than says "ignition sequence start", which takes about 3 seconds, and we continue counting down. 
In normal mode, don't worry about the messages actually appearing on the screen 1 or 5 seconds apart. 
It's ok if it all prints out at the same time.

## Hard mode

Now you can worry about the messages being 1 or 5 seconds apart. 
Find a way to get the countdown to actually count down in seconds rather than printing everything all at once.

## Nighmare mode

Now rewrite your code so that it is recursive. Remember, a recursive method is a method that calls itself.

For example:

```ruby
def method
  puts "hello world"
  method
end

method
```

When you execute the file, we get

```bash
hello world
hello world
hello world
hello world
hello world
hello world
# continues forever until we get "SystemStackError: stack level too deep"
```


## Dice

### Normal mode

Create a game where the user simulates rolling a pair of dice.

- If the sum of the dice is 7, the user wins and the game should say something positive.
- If the user loses by rolling anything other than 7, the computer should say something negative.

Sample output

```bash
DICE ROLL GAME
press ctrl-c to quit, press enter to continue # user presses enter
Dice 1: 5
Dice 2: 4
Sum: 9
You lose! # user presses enter
Dice 1: 4
Dice 2: 3
Sum: 7
You win! # user press ctrl-c and stops execution
```

### Hard mode

Now that you have a simple working game, adjust your code so that the positive and negative messages are random.

For example, if the user wins, it could say "Congrats!" one time and "You are very lucky!" the next, and "With this luck you should play the lottery" also.

Also, if the user loses, it could say "Boo-hoo!" one time and "Maybe try knitting." the next, and "Just stop." also.

The messages don't matter, as long as they get printed randomly.

## Number Guessing Game

### Description

Create a number guessing game in which the computer picks a number and you have to guess it.  
The computer will give you cues like 'Too High' or 'Too Low.'

### Normal Mode

Your goal for this week is to create a number guessing game. 
Your program should pick a random number between 1 and 100 and ask you for a guess. 
If your guess is less than the program's number, it should tell you that you were low and let you guess again. 
If the guess is greater than the program's number,  it should tell you that you were high and let you guess again. 
If your guess is correct, the program should tell you that you win and then quit.

* The gameplay should match the instructions given in the Mode(s) below.
* After 5 incorrect guesses, the program should tell you that you lose.
* If you guess the same number twice, the program should ask you if you're feeling all right (or something similarly sarcastic).
* Your code should include at least two methods.
* This game should be run from the command line by typing "ruby guessing_game.rb".

### Hard Mode

The program should also comment on your behavior if you make a guess that doesn't help you.
For example, you might say "50" and then be told "that's too low."  If you then guess "25," you're just wasting a guess.

### Nightmare Mode

Write the opposite program as well: you, the user, pick a number between 1 and 100. 
The computer has to guess the number. 
You tell it whether it's too high, too low, or correct after each guess. 
The computer gets five guesses. 
The computer should tell you if you are lying to it.  
(e.g. Computer guesses 50, you say "High."  Computer then guesses 49 and you say "Low."  You'd be lying, as there are no numbers between them.)

### Additional Resources

If you do Nightmare Mode, you might want to:

* [Watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JQhciTuD3E8) about binary search
* [Read this article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_search_algorithm) about binary search

## Student Grades

You are a teacher. You want a program that keeps track of your students and their grades.

The program is keeping all this information in a database. Call the data file `students.yml`. The program should ask what you want to do: search a student or add a student. If you add a student, you should be able to enter a student's name and their grades. If you search a student, but they can't be found, show error message. If student is found, you see their name, grades, and average. Should be asked if you want to add more grades or go back.

User should see something like:

```bash
ruby students.rb # user types ruby students.rb
Main menu (a = add. s = search)
> a # user types a
Adding student.
Name: Bob # user types Bob
Grade: 78 # User types 78
Grade: 90
Grade: # User types nothing
Main menu (s = search, a = add)
> s # user types s
Searching.
Name? Bob # user types Bob
Student: Bob
Grades: 78, 90
Average: 84.0
Student menu (a = add grade. b = back)
> a # user types a
Grade: 80 # user types 80
Grade: # user types nothing
Student: Bob
Grades: 78, 90, 80
Average: 82.7
Student menu (a = add grade. b = back)
> b # user types b
(a = add. s = search)
> s # user types a
Student name? David # user types David
David not found!
Main menu (a = add. s = search)
> # user types nothing, program stops
```

All this student info gets saved to a file.

## Album Inventory

You work at an album store. Your boss says he wants to keep track of all the albums they have in stock. He wants to know the name of the album and the number of copies they have. Build a program that allows the user to perform the following operations:

- Add a record to the inventory file
- Search for a record
- Modify the quantity in an existing record in the inventory file
- Delete a record in the inventory file

We want to give the user a menu to choose from. Build a program with the following methods

- `main:` This method executes when the program starts
- `display_menu:` This method displays the following menu:

```
1. Add a record.
2. Search for a reward.
3. Modify a record.
4. Delete a record.
5. Display all records.
6. End the program.
```
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The `display_menu` method also gets the user's selection, and validates the selection.
- `add_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #1 from the menu. It allows the user to search the inventory file for a specific record.
- `search_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #2 from the menu. It allows the user to search the inventory file for a specific record.
- `modify_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #3 from the menu. It allows the user to modify the quantity that is stored in an existing record in the inventory.
- `delete_record:` This method is called when the user selects item #4 from the menu. It allows the user to delete a record form the inventory file.
- `display_records:` This method is called when the user selects item #5 from the menu. It displays all of the records in the inventory file.

The pseudocode for the `main` method is show below.

```ruby
def main
  loop do
    # display the menu, get selection
    # large if-elsif statement
      # case 1: call add_record
      # case 2: call search_record
      # case 3: call modify_record
      # case 4: call delete_record
      # case 5: call display_records
      # stop loop if selection was 6
  end
end
```
