# Integers, Floats & Strings

[How to use irb](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lVpE4YbUz8Q)
[How to ruby a ruby file](http://youtu.be/V3ynQciE2ag)

In class we used irb to immediatly see the feedback of our code. In this assignment we will put our programs into files and then running our code from the command line.

Remember that to run your program you use the ruby command and pass the name of the file where you put your code as a parameter. For example:

```bash
ruby integers.rb
```
In the following exercises you will be instructed to create a file with a given filename to do something interesting then you will run the code to see the output.

Remember that to output something to the terminal we use the puts in ruby.

## Integers

Create a new ruby file called *integers.rb*. That outputs the following list to the command line. Not that you don't can directly use ruby as a calculator in this exercise. For example in your file you can do something like this:

```ruby
puts (7 * 3) + 1
```
1. Your age in seconds
2. How tall you are in inches
3. In minutes, how much time do you spend working.

The output should be something like:

```bash
1040688000
68
124800
```

## Strings

Create a ruby file called *strings.rb* that outputs the following:

1. Your name
2. The names of your siblings
3. The names of your parents

Your output should be something like:

```bash
John Smith
Bob Smith, Sara Smith, Tom Smith
Wilma Smith, Jermiah Smith
```

## Variables

Create a file variables.rb and at the top set the values for the following list of variables. You can pick what the variable names.

1. your age (as an nteger)
2. your name (as a string)
3. the city you live in

Write some code that says "Hello my name is Bob, I'm 22 years old and I live in Raleigh."

For this exercise you will be using the ruby command print instead of puts because print doesn't start a new line like puts does.

Use the variables that you defined then you can quickly change the values to generate the message for someone else.
