# Review If statements and arrays

[Class Video] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NzcDIC_0wmA)

## Convert to dog years
Everyone knows that a human year is equivalent to 7 dog years,
so write a program that gets a person's age and then prints their age in dog years

## Evaluate the following expressions

- 3 and 7
- 7 && 5
- 3 < 3 && nil
- 3 == 3 && not 8
- 3 != 3 and 3 == 3
- 3 != 3 or 3 == 3
- not ( 3 != 3 or 3 == 3)
- 1 and 2 or 3
- "fish" and "chips"
- "beer" or "wine"
- nil or nil and 7
- 7 and (nil or 5)


## Absolute Number

Write a program that asks the user for a number and returns the absolute value of the number. For example:

What is your number? 10
Abs of 10 is 10

What is your number? -20
Abs of -20 is 20

Hint: Think about how to check if a number is less than zero with an if statement.

## What to wear
Write a program that asks what the temperature is outside.
If it is greater than 80 output "You should wear shorts."
If it is less than 80 but more than 70 output, "Nice day wear something light".
If it is less than 70 but more than 40 output "You need a sweater!"
If it is less than 40 output "Why don't you stay inside?"

Hints: Remember to convert what you get from the gets command to an integer to be able to compare it to other integers.
       Use elsif for multiple checks.

## Test Comments

### Normal

 You are a teacher. You like to give feedback to your students after tests.
 You want a program that produces those comments for you. Write a program that:

 - takes a test grade (between 0 and 100)
 - If between 90 and 100 give a “good job” message
 - If between 80 and 90 give a “almost there” message
 - If between 70 and 80 give a “try harder” message
 - If between 60 and 70 give a “I’m disappointed” message
 - If below 60 give a “Please see me after class” message
 - If not a number, give a "Not a number!" message

### Hard

 Upgrade your program so that

 - if the input is not a number, ask again.

### Nightmare

 Upgrade your program so that
 - it lets you enter many numbers.
 - If the entry is blank that means they're done.

 Messages are still being printed after every test score input. However,

 - after the program is done running, it should output the average of all the numbers.
