# Methods
[Class Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J7A-lseHWv4)

## Agenda
- Warmup Exercise
- Learn about functions/methods
- Practice
- Write methods with if statements
- Write methods with loops

## Warmup
Write a program that creates 3 arrays of ints by getting input from the user. After getting each array it then outputs the max and min from each array.

You can use the code that we went over last class.

## Function/Method calls

Methods have a *name* and zero or more *parameters* and code. Examples of methods:

```ruby
def wave
  puts "hello"
end
```

```ruby
def add(a,b)
  puts a + b
end
```

```ruby
def items(a,b,c,d,e,f)
  puts a, b, c, d, e, f
end
```

The value of the parameter is set to the value of the passed input for example:

```ruby
def test(a)
  puts a
end

test(1) # inside method a is set to 1
test(2) # inside method a is set to 2
test(44) # inside method a is set to 44
```

When calling a method the parameters can be expressions. These expressions are evaluated first then the values are passed to the methods.

```ruby
def test(a, b, c)
  puts "a: ", a
  puts "b: ", b
  puts "c: ", c
end

test(1, 2 + 3, 4 < 3)
test(1 - 2, 3, 4 < 3)
test(0, false or true, 4 > 3)
test("abc", 9, "s" + "o")
```

The parameters of a method are temporary. They cease to exist after we exit the method.

Try the following:

```ruby
def test(a)
  puts a
end

test(3)
puts a
```

You should get an error because the variable a was only defined inside the method.

Similarly, variables defined outside the method do not exist inside the method. Only outside the method.

Try the following:

```ruby
a = 10
def test(a)
  puts a
end
test(10)
```

After a method performs some calculations it can either return a value using the keyword *return* or nothing.

For example:

```ruby
# returns an int
def add(a, b)
  c = a + b
  return c
end
```

```ruby
# returns a string
def wave
  return "hello there"
end
```

```ruby
# doesn't return anything
def bye
  puts "bye"
end
```

## More complex methods

Write a method that takes two parameters a and b and prints the max of the two numbers.

```ruby
def max(a, b)
  if a < b
    puts b
  else
    puts a
  end
end
```

Using this knowledge write code for the following 3 methods:

- A method that takes 3 inputs and prints the largest of the 3
- A method that takes 2 strings and returns the longest string
- A method that takes 3 integers and returns an array with the integers sorted

You can also take arrays as parameters and perform loops inside methods for example:

```ruby
def reverse(array)
  ret = []
  array.each do |item|
    item.unshift(item)
  end
  return ret
end
```

Write the following methods the take an array as input and return another array:

- A method that takes an array of ints and returns an array with each integer in the first array increased by 3
- A method that takes an array and an integer and adds that integer to each element in the array
- A method that takes two arrays and returns the pair wise sum of the two arrays. For example [1, 2, 3] and [5, 6, 7] would return [6, 8, 10]

## Pass by reference

When we pass an array to a method we are passing the *reference* of the array. The code inside the method can modify the array and the changes persist after we exit the method. For example:

```ruby
def change(array)
  array << 3
end

a = [1, 2]
change(array)
puts a
```

## End of Class

Now rewrite the same program we wrote at the start of class but using methods to make it shorter
