# More Methods

## Complex methods

Write a method that takes two parameters a and b and prints the max of the two numbers.

```ruby
def max(a, b)
  if a < b
    return b
  else
    return a
  end
end
```

Using this knowledge write code for the following 3 methods:

- A method that takes 3 inputs and prints the largest of the 3
- A method that takes 2 strings and returns the longest string
- A method that takes 3 integers and returns an array with the integers sorted

You can also take arrays as parameters and perform loops inside methods for example:

```ruby
def reverse(array)
  ret = []
  array.each do |item|
    item.unshift(item)
  end
  return ret
end
```

Write the following methods the take an array as input and return another array:

- A method that takes an array of ints and returns an array with each integer in the first array increased by 3
- A method that takes an array and an integer and adds that integer to each element in the array
- A method that takes two arrays and returns the pair wise sum of the two arrays. For example [1, 2, 3] and [5, 6, 7] would return [6, 8, 10]

## Pass by reference

When we pass an array to a method we are passing the *reference* of the array. The code inside the method can modify the array and the changes persist after we exit the method. For example:

```ruby
def change(array)
  array << 3
end

a = [1, 2]
change(array)
puts a
```

## Methods Inside Methods

We can also call another method from inside a method for example:

```ruby
def add(a, b)
  return a + b
end

def prod(a, b)
  return a * b
end

def equation(a, b)
  c = add(a, b)
  d = mult(a, b)
  return c + d
end

puts equation(3, 2)
```

A method can even call itself for example:

```ruby
def fact(n)
  if n == 1
    return 1
  else
    return n * fact(n-1)
  end
end

puts fact(5)
```

This is called recursion and it can be shown mathematically that anything that can be done with loops can be done with recursion. For example:

```ruby
def sum(array)
  total = 0
  array.each do |item|
    total = total + item
  end
  return total
end

def sum(array)
  item = array.first
  if item.nil?
    return 0
  else
    return item + sum(array)
  end
end
```
## Class Exercise

Write a program that asks for the names of 3 people and their favorite color, then you can give it the name of a person and it tells you what their favorite color is. For example:

```bash
Person: Bob
Favorite Color: Red
Person: Alice
Favorite Color: Green
Person: Tom
Favorite Color: Orange
Give me a person: Bob
Bob's favorite color is Red
Give me a person: Tom
Tom's favorite color is Orange
Give me a person:
Good Bye!
```
## Hashes

Hashes are another ruby data type. They are similar to arrays because they also store other types. However, unlike arrays the elements in a hash are not stored in any particular order. To access an item in a hash you need a *key*.

Here is how we define hashes:

```ruby
h = {} # empty hash

h = { 'bob' => 'red' } # hash with one element 'red', accessible with key 'bob'

# same as above except we first create an empty hash then add an element to it
h = {}
h['bob'] = 'red'
```

Differences between arrays and hashes

- Arrays are *indexed* by integers i.e. 0, 1, 2, 3. Hashes can be indexed by any type i.e. 3, 'bob', 3.4, nil, true
- Arrays have an order to them, when you iterate an array you will always get the elements back in the same order, with hashes order is not guaranteed.
- You can add an element to array without a key, but you always need a key to add to a hash


Similarities:

- Arrays and hashes are collections of other types
- Both are passed by reference
- Both has a length
- Both have the same syntax for indexing a['a'] vs a[0] (sometimes it's difficult to tell which is which)

## Exercises

Give the following hashes, evaluate the expressions

```ruby
a = { 'a' => 10, 'b' => 34 }
b = { 1 => 3, 'c' => 'c' }
c = { nil => true, true => nil }
d = { 'a' => [1, 7, 9] }
```

- a['b']
- a['b'] + b[1]
- a.length
- b['c'].length
- d['a'].length
- d['a'][1]
- c[nil]
- c[nil] && c[true]
- a['c']
- 
