# Methods
[Class Video](https://youtu.be/G3_qDM0DjFM)

## Outline
* Homework review
* Function/Methods
  * Parameters
  * Explicit return value
  * Implicit return value
* Scope


# Function/Methods

## Parameters

Methods have a *name* and zero or more *parameters* and code.

Methods are defined using the `def` keyword.

The end of the method is signified with the `end` keyword.

Examples of methods:

```ruby
def wave
  puts "hello"
end
```

```ruby
def add(a,b)
  puts a + b
end
```

```ruby
def items(a,b,c,d,e,f)
  puts a, b, c, d, e, f
end
```

A function that is defined with *parameters*, but it is *called* with *arguments*.
The value of the parameter is set to the value of the passed input for example:

```ruby
def test(a)
  puts a
end

test(1) # inside method a is set to 1
test(2) # inside method a is set to 2
test(44) # inside method a is set to 44
```

When calling a method the *arguments* can be expressions. These expressions are evaluated first then the values are passed to the methods.

```ruby
def test(a, b, c)
  puts "a: ", a
  puts "b: ", b
  puts "c: ", c
end

test(1, 2 + 3, 4 < 3)
test(1 - 2, 3, 4 < 3)
test(0, false or true, 4 > 3)
test("abc", 9, "s" + "o")
```

## Return values
Every method in Ruby returns a value when called.

### Explicit return value
After a method performs some calculations it can return a value using the keyword `return`.

For example:

```ruby
# returns an int
def add(a, b)
  c = a + b
  return c
end
```

```ruby
# returns a string
def wave
  return "hello there"
end
```

### Implicit return value
If a `return` statement is not explicitly run in the method,
Ruby will return the result of the last line evaluated in the method

```ruby
# returns 'bye' since that is the result of the last line evaluated
def bye
  "bye"
end
```

```ruby
def print_hello_world
  puts "Hello world!"
end
# What does this return?
# Why does it return that?
```

# Scope

Scope is the area within a program that a variable is accessible.

Methods create their own scope, and the code outside the method doesn't have access to the methods scope.

The parameters of a method are temporary. They cease to exist after we exit the method.

Try the following:

```ruby
def test(a)
  puts a
end

test(3)
puts a
```
You should get an error because the variable a was only defined inside the method.

Similarly, variables defined outside the method do not exist inside the method. Only outside the method.

Try the following:

```ruby
a = 10
def test(a)
  puts "The value of a inside the test method is: #{a}"
end
test(5)
puts "The value of a outside the test method is: #{a}"
```

