# Arrays Practice

## Evaluate Expressions

Evalutate the following expressions when the following array have been defined. Understanding what an expression evaluates to helps you to later come up with your own expressions. We have not seen some of the methods used but you can either google *"ruby array"* or guess that they will do.

```ruby
a = [7, 3, 1]
b = [1, 5, 6]
c = ['bread', 'cat', 'bin', 'boz']
sodas = ['sprite', 'coke', 'pepsi', 'orange soda', 'mountain dew']
```

- a[2]
- b[10]
- c[0] + ' ' c[2]
- c[0] < c[1]
- a.length + c.length
- sodas[-2]
- sodas.first
- sodas.last
- a.reverse
- a.empty?

## Write code to do the following

Another skill to master is manipulating arrays. Give the following arrays are defined. Write code that will perform the following tasks

```ruby
a = [7, 3, 1]
b = [1, 5, 6]
c = ['bread', 'cat', 'bin', 'boz']
sodas = ['sprite', 'coke', 'pepsi', 'orange soda', 'mountain dew']
```

- set the value of array c at position 2 to 7
- define an array that has as elements the lengths of the strings from array c, call this array _lengths_
- set the value of array a at position 3 to the sum of the other elements of a
- add 101 to the front of array a
- add 201 to the end of array b

## Reading Programs

A useful skill to have is reading code and understanding what is going on. Here you will look at 3 programs and try to figure out how each of the variables are changing through out the program. Being able to read code will help you to write your own code because you can see what others have come up with.

### Build an array of integers from user input
You already know what this program should be doing. The goal now is to understand the details of how it is doing that.
```ruby
list = []
loop {
  a = gets.chomp
  if a == ''
    break
  end
  list << a.to_i
}
puts list
```

### Average the integeers in an array
You know what this program is attempting to do, but there is a small bug. See if you can figure out what it is. (Hint: it has to do with types).

```ruby
# find the average of an array list
a = [60, 78, 97, 82, 23]
total = 0
a.each do |item|
  total = total + item
end
avg = total / a.length
puts "average is: " + avg.to_s
```

### Something interesting
```ruby
list = ['bananas', 'potatoes', 'mangos', 'raspberry', 'persimmon', 'kiwi']
total = 0
list.each do |item|
  total = total + item.length
end
avg = total / a.length
puts avg
```
### Longest word
This program figures out what the longest word is in an array. Think about why we need to keep track of the longest word.

```ruby
list = ['bananas', 'potatoes', 'mangos', 'raspberry', 'persimmon', 'kiwi']
longest = ''
list.each do |word|
  if longest.length < word.length
    longest = word
  end
end
puts longest
```


## Methods

```ruby
def add(a, b)
  return a + b
end
```

```ruby
def multiply(a, b)
  return a * b
end
```
