# Review Hashes, Methods

## Review Expressions

Give the following variable declarations what do the following expressions evaluate to?

```ruby
a = [7, 9, 2, 6]
b = ['cat', 'dog', 'bat', 'rat']
h = { 'bob' => 17, 'alice' => 19, 'dan' => 23 }
g = { :pizza => 2, :spaghetti => 5, :lasagne => true , 9 => 'abc'}
x = "alice"
```

- a[0] + h['bob']
- h['alice'] + g[:pizza]
- h[x]
- b[1] && h['dan']
- !g[:lasagne]
- g[:parm]
- g[:spaghetti] + h.length
- g[g[:parm]]
- b.length + b[2].length
- g[a[1]].length
- a[g[a[1]].length]

## Ages database

This program creates a "database" to store the ages of people. You can then ask the program for a person's age.

```ruby
people = {}

people['bob'] = 5
people['alice'] = 22
people['peter'] = 12
people['chris'] = 33

loop {
  print "Name: "
  name = gets.chomp
  if name == ''
    break
  end
  age = people[name]
  puts name + " is " + age.to_s
}
```

First try to understand what this program is doing. Copy and run it on your computer and try different names like bob, alice, peter, or your own name.

## Fixing a bug

You should notice that if you try your own name it will output:

```bash
sam is
```

This is because we are not checking that same is actually in the hash. You can recall that when a key is not in the hash,indexing it will evaluate to nil. So we have to check if age is nil, and if age is nil output a message that says the person was not found.

## Adding Names

Our "database" is not very useful because we can't add new people to it. It would be useful if we could add new people to our database. Here is a program that would do that. There is a lot of stuff going on in this program. It covers almost everything we have learned so far. Let's dissect it.

```ruby
people = {}

def add_person(people)
  print "Name: "
  name = gets.chomp
  print "Age: "
  age = gets.to_i
  people[name] = age
end

def search_person(people)
  print "Name: "
  name = gets.chomp
  age = people[name]
  puts name + " is " + age.to_s
end

# main loop
loop {
  print '> '
  command = gets.chomp
  if command == 'add'
    add_person(people)
  elsif command == 'search'
    search_person(people)
  else
    puts "Wrong command"
    puts "Enter add to add a person"
    puts "Enter search to search for a person"
  end
}
```

## Reading files

So far we only have one way to give our program information, through the keyboard. Next we will learn how our program can get information from files and even save information to files. This is very useful because at the moment, our programs only kept the information while they were running. Once they exit the information was lost. Writing that information to a file will enable us to load that information when the program starts again.

First download the file [d](sd) using the following command on the command line:

```bash
curl -o fsd
```

```ruby
# we have a file handle
file = open('programmers_code_of_ethics.txt')

text = file.read

puts text

file.close
```

## Writing to files

Writing to a file is similar to reading a file. The main difference is that we pass a second parameter. We can write to a file using the same methods we use to output to the screen. *puts* and *print* function the same way, one puts a new line at the end while the other doesn't.

```ruby
file = open('hello.txt', 'w')

file.print "This is text"

file.puts "This is more text"

file.close
```

*One important thing to remember is that you have to call file.close in order for the contents to be saved to disk.*
