# Hashes
[Class Video] (https://youtu.be/39sT4viIZEM)

## Agenda
* Review
  * Recursive functions
  * Objects
* New data types
  * Hashes
    * Intro
    * Looping
  * Symbols
    * Uniqueness
* Types review
* Example complex program
* Reading files
* Writing files


## Recursive functions
We learned about recursive functions in the last class.

A recursive function is a function that calls itself.

To ensure that a recursive function eventually exits it needs to have a base case that doesn't call itself.

A standard example of a recursive function is calculating Fibonacci numbers.

Fibonacci numbers and characterized by the fact that every number after the first two is the sum of the two preceding ones,

the first two Fibonacci numbers are 0 and 1.

So the first 8 Fibonacci numbers are:
0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13

Or written out in an equation:

fibonacci(x) = fibonacci(x-1) + fibonacci(x-2)

Let's write a recursive function to compute any fibonacci number.

## Objects review
List the properties and behavior of the object you chose to describe.


# Hashes
Hashes are another ruby data type. 

They are similar to arrays because they also store other types. 

However, unlike arrays the elements in a hash are not stored in any particular order. 

To access an item in a hash you need a *key*.

Here is how we define hashes:

```ruby
h = {} # empty hash

h = { 'bob' => 'red' } # hash with one element 'red', accessible with key 'bob'

# same as above except we first create an empty hash then add an element to it
h = {}
h['bob'] = 'red'
```

Differences between arrays and hashes

- Arrays are *indexed* by integers i.e. 0, 1, 2, 3. Hashes can be indexed by any type i.e. 3, 'bob', 3.4, nil, true
- Arrays have an order to them, when you iterate an array you will always get the elements back in the same order, with hashes order is not guaranteed.
- You can add an element to array without a key, but you always need a key to add to a hash


Similarities:

- Arrays and hashes are collections of other types
- Both are passed by reference
- Both have a length
- Both have the same syntax for indexing a['a'] vs a[0], sometimes it's difficult to tell which is which.

## Exercises

Give the following hashes, evaluate the expressions

```ruby
a = { 'a' => 10, 'b' => 34 }
b = { 1 => 3, 'c' => 'c' }
c = { nil => true, true => nil }
d = { 'a' => [1, 7, 9] }
```

- a['b']
- a['b'] + b[1]
- a.length
- b['c'].length
- d['a'].length
- d['a'][1]
- c[nil]
- c[nil] && c[true]
- a['c']

## Looping through a hash

Looping through a hash is similar to looping through an array. 

However, the order of the elements is not guaranteed. 

You have to remember this because the order might be the same every time you run the program, then all of a sudden it changes. 

Here is an example of looping:

```ruby
h = { 'a' => 10, 'b' => 77 }
h.each do |key, value|
  puts key, value
end
```
[Ruby documentation for Hash.each method](https://ruby-doc.org/core-1.9.3/Hash.html#method-i-each)

## Symbols

Symbols are like strings, but they are easier for a computer to work with because they are stored as numbers inside the computer. 

They are also easier for us to type because they are preceded by a colon. 

For example:

```ruby
a = :symbol
b = :this_is_another_symbol
c = :s
```

They don't have the same methods as strings such as split and you can't add symbols together like you can strings.

They are used a lot as keys in hashes, for example:

```ruby
h = { :a => 3, :b => 7 }
```
## Symbol Uniqueness
Like `nil`, symbols are unique meaning there is only ever 1 instance of a specific symbol in memory.

```ruby
a = :hello
b = :hello
a.object_id === b.object_id
```

## Review Types

- Integers
- Floats
- Strings
- Booleans
- Nil
- Symbols

- Arrays
- Hashes

## Review Expressions

Give the following variable declarations what do the following expressions evaluate to?

```ruby
a = [7, 9, 2, 6]
b = ['cat', 'dog', 'bat', 'rat']
h = { 'bob' => 17, 'alice' => 19, 'dan' => 23 }
g = { :pizza => 2, :spaghetti => 5, :lasagne => true , 9 => 'abc'}
x = "alice"
```

- a[0] + h['bob']
- h['alice'] + g[:pizza]
- h[x]
- b[1] && h['dan']
- !g[:lasagne]
- g[:parm]
- g[:spaghetti] + h.length
- g[g[:parm]]
- b.length + b[2].length
- g[a[1]].length
- a[g[a[1]].length]

## Ages database

This program creates a "database" to store the ages of people. You can then ask the program for a person's age.

```ruby
people = {}

people['bob'] = 5
people['alice'] = 22
people['peter'] = 12
people['chris'] = 33

loop {
  print "Name: "
  name = gets.chomp
  if name == ''
    break
  end
  age = people[name]
  puts name + " is " + age.to_s
}
```

First try to understand what this program is doing. 

Copy and run it on your computer and try different names like bob, alice, peter, or your own name.

## Fixing a bug

You should notice that if you try your own name it will output:

```bash
sam is
```

This is because we are not checking that same is actually in the hash. You can recall that when a key is not in the hash,indexing it will evaluate to nil. So we have to check if age is nil, and if age is nil output a message that says the person was not found.

## Adding Names

Our "database" is not very useful because we can't add new people to it. 

It would be useful if we could add new people to our database. 

Here is a program that would do that. 

There is a lot of stuff going on in this program. 

It covers almost everything we have learned so far. Let's dissect it.

```ruby
people = {}

def add_person(people)
  print "Name: "
  name = gets.chomp
  print "Age: "
  age = gets.to_i
  people[name] = age
end

def search_person(people)
  print "Name: "
  name = gets.chomp
  age = people[name]
  puts name + " is " + age.to_s
end

# main loop
loop {
  print '> '
  command = gets.chomp
  if command == 'add'
    add_person(people)
  elsif command == 'search'
    search_person(people)
  else
    puts "Wrong command"
    puts "Enter add to add a person"
    puts "Enter search to search for a person"
  end
}
```

## Reading files

So far we only have one way to give our program information, through the keyboard. 

Next we will learn how our program can get information from files and even save information to files. 

This is very useful because at the moment, our programs only kept the information while they were running. 

Once they exit the information was lost. 

Writing that information to a file will enable us to load that information when the program starts again.

First download the file [d](sd) using the following command on the command line:

```bash
curl -o fsd
```

```ruby
# we have a file handle
file = open('programmers_code_of_ethics.txt')

text = file.read

puts text

file.close
```

## Writing to files

Writing to a file is similar to reading a file. 

The main difference is that we pass a second parameter. 

We can write to a file using the same methods we use to output to the screen. 
`puts` and `print` function the same way, one puts a new line at the end while the other doesn't.

```ruby
file = open('hello.txt', 'w')

file.print "This is text"

file.puts "This is more text"

file.close
```

*One important thing to remember is that you have to call file.close in order for the contents to be saved to disk.*
